#1
Slide 1: rotation basics

When reffering to airplanes, rotation is defined using three main components:

Pitch: like nodding you head up and down
Yaw: like shaking your head side to side
Roll: like tilting your head so that you maintain the direction you are looking. 
#2
Slide 2: Airplane parts

Basic airplanes have four main parts for controlling flying:

Ailerons: located on the wing of the airplane, these control roll.
Elevators: located on the horiztonal stabilizer of the airplane (small wings at the back), these control pitch.
Rudders: located on the vertical stabilizer, these control yaw.
Flaps: used for takeoff and landing by increasing lift at low speeds, while increasing drag. 
#3
Slide 3: Taking off

First, make sure that you have enough room to take off in the runway.
It's important to reach a fast enough speed before pitching up to take off. If your speed is too slow, the airplane will not be able to take off due to the lack of lift. 
Pitch up slowly at around 60 knots for the optimal takeoff. If you pitch up too much, you risk hitting the ground with the tail of your airplane or even stalling the plane.
In addition, remember not to roll while taking off as you might risk hitting the wing on the ground. 

#4
Slide 4: Cruising

When flying from one place to another, most of the time is spent cruising, so it's important to know well. 
The first step is to reach cruising altitude (around 4500 ft in the simulation). This is when you can safely bring the plane's pitch to around 0 degrees, and fly to the destination.
While cruising, maintian a constant speed (around 110 knots in the simulation). 
#5
Slide 4: Landing

1. Descend to around 1000 ft 
2. make sure the plane is completely lined up with the runway
3. descend slowly, decreasing or turning off the throttle if needed and slowing down to around 60 knots. 
4. touchdown, using the brakes. 

#6
Slide 5: Altimeter

The altimeter tells the pilot the altitude of the airplane in feet above sea level using an air pressure sensor. 
Reading an altimeter is similar to reading a clock. The long hand represents the smaller unit, feet in hundreds and the shorter hand represents feet in thousands
#7
Slide 6: Airspeed indicator

Indicates the aircraft's speed relative to the air around it in knots.
#8
Slide 7: Compass/Heading indicator

Indicates the direction the airplane is heading in the cardinal directions and degrees, either by using a magnetic compass or a gyroscope.
#9
Slide 8: Attitude indicator / Fake horizon

Indicates the airplane's relation to the horizon, effected by roll and pitch
(the fake horizon will not be present in this simulation due to the already high visibility)
#10
Slide 9: Turn indicator

Indicates roll and used for coordinated turning. Keeping the airplane's roll at the indicated L or R markings will preform a controlled turn. 

It's important to remember to yaw and roll at the same time in opposite directions while preforming a coordinated turn. This is because yawing causes lift in one wing to increase, which rotates the plane in the longitudinal axis. This rotation needs to be counteracted, which is why you have to roll in the opposite direction of the yaw.
#11
Slide 10: Vertical speed indicator / veriometer

indicates the vertical climb in feet per minute by measuring changes in air pressure. 
#12
Slide 11: General tips for flying

- Use the controls gently, as the plane will cruise pretty well on it's own, and might only need occasional input from the pilot. 
- it's important to consider how lift works in an airplane. When you pitch left or right, the direction of lift is no longer counteracting gravity as well, so you will lost altitude. 